---
sidebar_position: 1
description: Configuration Files (.cfg)
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Configuration Files (.cfg)

---

## Overview

---

The .cfg files are ASCII text configuration files present in `/base` and used by id tech 4 based games for setting CVars, mapping player input to keys or buttons (see note below), and executing console commands:

You can use two forward slashes to write comments in .cfg files:

```cpp
// This is a comment
```

Usually the following files are available (by reading order of the engine):

- `DoomConfig.cfg`: Stores all the game’s options. It’s auto-generated by the engine so manual editing is not recommended. If you delete this file the engine will revert to a `default.cfg` file located inside one of the .pk4 files.

## config.cfg

Stores all the game’s options. It’s auto-generated by the engine so manual editing is not recommended. If you delete this file the engine will revert to a `default.cfg` file located inside one of the .pk4 files.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="doom3" label="Doom 3">
      In Doom 3 the .cfg file is `DoomConfig.cfg`
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="prey" label="Prey (2006)">
      In Prey the .cfg file is `PreyConfig.cfg`
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="quake4" label="Quake IV">
      In Quake IV the .cfg file is `Quake4Config.cfg`
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="wolf" label="Wolfenstein (2009)">
      In Wolfenstein the .cfg file is `wolf.cfg`
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="etqw" label="Enemy Territory: Quake Wars">
      In Enemy Territory: Quake Wars the main .cfg file is split into two .cfg
      `etqwdedbinds.cfg` for Keyboard Binds.
      `etqwdedconfig.cfg` for Main Game Settings.
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## default.cfg

The config file to be use when the main config.cfg is missing, if this .cfg is missing the the game wouldn't boot up.

## editor.cfg

Optional. Stores all the DoomEdit relevant options. It’s auto-generated by the engine so manual editing is not recommended.

## autoexec.cfg

Optional. This file is read last and will override any options set elsewhere. It’s meant for user-manipulation so you can set any CVars here that you’d have to otherwise set in the game or editor shortcuts.

You can also create your own custom configuration files to load custom settings and execute console commands in notepad. You can then load these files by using the exec console command in the shortcut or adding the following line to your `autoexec.cfg`:

```cpp
exec myconfig.cfg
```

:::note

Mapping player input is accomplished through the use of the bind console command which accepts console commands, cvars, and impluses as valid input.

:::
